Doc 1822/P9-Dashboard (#689)
swan-io/docs: docs/topics/operations/guide-dashboard-overview-what-each-tab-does.mdx

---
title: Navigate your Dashboard
---

# Navigate your Dashboard

This guide helps partner support teams navigate the Dashboard and handle day-to-day partner operations. For API guidance, see [Choose your integration](/topics/get-started/choose-integration/) and [Activate your project](/topics/projects/guide-activate/).

:::info Key takeaways

> - Your Dashboard is organized into four sections, **Data**, **Insights**, **Developers**, and **Settings**, plus a **Sandbox/Live toggle**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Your Dashboard is organized into four sections (**Data**, **Insights**, **Developers**, and **Settings**), plus a **Sandbox/Live toggle**.
```
Parentheses avoid the comma pile-up.

- You can perform many actions without contacting Swan Support. See the [self-service actions](#get-to-know-the-self-service-actions).
- Some actions (like changing an account admin) still require a **Swan Support request**.

:::

## Understand the Dashboard

The Dashboard is your central workspace for managing your Swan project. What you see in the Dashboard is the same data your development team works with via the API, presented in a readable interface.

The Dashboard has four sections, plus a toggle to switch environments:

- **Data**: day-to-day operational work
- **Insights**: performance monitoring and analytics
- **Developers**: tools for your development team
- **Settings**: project configuration (split between partner support and development team)
- **Sandbox/Live toggle**: switch between test and production environments

## Know the different roles

| Role | Responsibilities |
| --- | --- |
| **You** | Data section operations, branding, monitoring in Insights, submitting support requests. |
| **Your development team** | Developers section, redirect URIs, server consent, payment control, all API-based actions. |

> | **Swan** | Transfer recalls, account admin changes, cases requiring Swan review. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **You** | Data section operations, branding, monitoring in Insights, submitting support requests |
| **Your development team** | Developers section, redirect URIs, server consent, payment control, all API-based actions |
| **Swan** | Transfer recalls, account admin changes, cases requiring Swan review |
```
Fragment cells don't take fullstops; matches the other tables on this page.

## Get started if you're new

> 1. Start with **Data** > **Users**. It's the most comprehensive view, showing contact details, identification history, cards, accounts, and balances for each user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Start with **Dashboard** > **Data** > **Users**. It's the most comprehensive view, showing contact details, identification history, cards, accounts, and balances for each user.
```
Nav paths start with **Dashboard** everywhere else in the docs (all P-guides, ibans index, billing guides). Applies to every path on this page.

> 2. Switch to **Sandbox** to explore without affecting live data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Switch to **Sandbox** to explore without affecting Live data.
```
Live is the environment name, contrasting with Sandbox.

3. Review **Settings** > **Branding** to confirm your project name, logo, and accent color match your brand. If anything needs updating, edit it directly in Branding.

### Notifications and support

- **Incident and status updates**: you can subscribe to [status.swan.io](https://status.swan.io/) to receive real-time notifications about incidents, outages, and maintenance. Notifications aren't pushed directly via the Dashboard but through the status page.

> - **Notification center**: for certain card events, you can set up notifications via text message or email to your users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Notifications**: from **Dashboard** > **Settings** > **Notifications**, you can manage text message and email notifications sent to your users for certain events, such as rejected card payments. Review the full list of [notifications](/topics/projects/#notifications).
```
The docs call this **Settings** > **Notifications** (Projects page), and the notifications cover more than card events (onboarding finalized, verification, membership invitations).

What can you monitor?

- **Product performance**: see the project overview, active accounts, card usage, and available balances.
- **Transaction volumes**: track total and average volumes broken down by payment method.
- **Onboarding performance**: monitor conversion rates, account holder verification progress, and where users drop off in the flow.
- **Identity verification**: observe funnel completion rates and status breakdowns.

## Test in the Developers section

This section contains tools your development team uses to build and test your integration.

| Tool | What it does | Full guide |
| --- | --- | --- |
| **API Explorer** | Test queries and mutations directly | [API Explorer guide](/developers/tools/api-explorer/) |
| **Webhooks** | Configure endpoints for real-time event notifications | [Webhooks guide](/developers/using-api/webhooks/) |
| **Event Simulator** | Simulate events in Sandbox to test your integration | [Event Simulator guide](/developers/tools/event-simulator/) |

## Configure your settings

| Setting | What you configure | Who |
| --- | --- | --- |

> | **Branding** | Project name, logo, accent color | **You** |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Branding** | Project name, logo, accent color | **You** |
| **Notifications** | Text message and email notifications sent to your users | **You** |
```
Notifications is a documented Settings item partners manage themselves, and the bullet above now points to it.

| **Redirect URIs** | OAuth authentication redirect URLs | **Development team** |
| **Server consent** | Server-to-server consent flow configuration | **Development team** |
| **Payment control** | Payment limits and controls | **Development team** |

## Get to know the self-service actions

You can complete the following actions directly from your Dashboard without submitting a Swan Support request or contacting your development team. Use this as a quick reference when a user contacts you with one of these needs.

### Onboarding and verification

> If a user's onboarding is waiting on documents, you can upload them and request a Swan review directly. You can also track identification status without contacting Swan.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a user's onboarding is waiting on documents, you can upload them and request a Swan review directly. You can also track identification status without contacting Swan. For the full workflows, see [Manage account verification](/topics/operations/guide-account-verification/) and [Manage user identification](/topics/operations/guide-user-identification/).
```
The ticket checklist requires cross-links to the P1-P7 guides.

| Action | Navigation path |
| --- | --- |
| Upload supporting documents | **Data** > **Onboardings** > [select] > **Supporting documents** > **Supporting document portal** |

> | Request document review | **Data** > **Onboardings** > [select] > **Supporting documents** > **Supporting document portal** > **Upload** > **Request review** |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Request document review | **Dashboard** > **Data** > **Onboardings** > select the onboarding > **Supporting documents** > **Supporting document portal** > **Upload** > **Request review** |
```

> | Track identification status | **Data** > **Users** > [select user] |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Track identification status | **Dashboard** > **Data** > **Users** > select the user |
```

### Accounts and memberships

Once an account is open, users may need additional IBANs to receive payments, account statements for their records, or help resolving membership issues. These actions cover the most common account management requests you'll receive.

| Action | Navigation path |
| --- | --- |

> | Create virtual IBANs | **Data** > **Accounts** > [select] > **Virtual IBANs** |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Create virtual IBANs | **Dashboard** > **Data** > **Accounts** > select the account > **Virtual IBANs** |
```

> | Download account statements | **Data** > **Accounts** > [select] > **Statements** |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Download account statements | **Dashboard** > **Data** > **Accounts** > select the account > **Statements** |
| Download billing invoices | **Dashboard** > **Data** > **Accounts** > select the account > **Billing** |
```
Invoices are account-scoped (billing docs: "review each invoice on your **Dashboard** > **Data** > **Accounts**"), so the row moves here from the Cards table. Please confirm the exact tab label in the live Dashboard.

> | Spot binding errors | **Data** > **Account memberships** > Filter for status `BindingUserError` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Spot binding errors | **Dashboard** > **Data** > **Account memberships** > filter by the status `BindingUserError` |
```
"Filter by" matches sibling phrasing. Status verified in the schema.

:::info How to create virtual IBANs

Before you can create a virtual IBAN:

> - Your Dashboard membership needs write access to accounts (`dataAccount_write` permission).

Reviewer: Where does `dataAccount_write` come from? It doesn't appear anywhere in the docs, and it isn't in the schema either (membership permissions there are `canViewAccount`, `canManageBeneficiaries`, `canInitiatePayments`, `canManageAccountMembership`, and `canManageCards`). If the string isn't literally visible in the Dashboard UI, plain English is safer for this audience, for example: "Your Dashboard membership needs write access to accounts data." If it is visible in the UI, keep it and confirm the exact spelling. (The payment level and account type prerequisites on the next line check out against the IBANs docs and the schema.)

Author: I think you sent the `dataAccount_write` to me like this after I asked, so I just copied and pasted it to the article :) We can make it simpler by just removing it, for sure.

- The account must have the payment level `Unlimited` and the account type `PaymentService`.

:::

### Transactions and payments

> Transactions cover everything from credit transfers to direct debit mandates. Check this section before escalating, since most transaction queries have a direct answer or action here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Transactions cover everything from credit transfers to direct debit mandates. Check this section before escalating, since most transaction queries have a direct answer or action here. For deeper troubleshooting, see [Troubleshoot incoming and outgoing transfers](/topics/operations/guide-troubleshoot-transfers/) and [Manage SEPA Direct Debit mandates](/topics/operations/guide-manage-mandates/).
```
Checklist cross-links.

| Action | Navigation path |
| --- | --- |

> | Cancel upcoming transfers | **Data** > **Accounts** > [select] > **Transactions** > [select Upcoming] > **Cancel** |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Cancel upcoming transfers | **Dashboard** > **Data** > **Transactions** > open the transfer with the status `Upcoming` > **Cancel transaction** |
```
Matches the documented flow in the transfers guide: the button is **Cancel transaction**, and it only appears while the transfer is still `Upcoming`. No Accounts detour needed.

> | Download transaction confirmation | **Data** > **Accounts** > [select] > **Transactions** > Filter for status `Booked` > **Download** |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Download a transaction confirmation | **Dashboard** > **Data** > **Transactions** > open the transaction with the status `Booked` > **Transaction confirmation** |
```
Canonical flow per the transaction statement guide: open the eligible `Booked` transaction and click **Transaction confirmation** (the button doesn't appear for ineligible transactions).

> | Review received mandates | **Data** > **Accounts** > [select] > **Received direct debit mandates** |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Review received mandates | **Dashboard** > **Data** > **Accounts** > select the account > **Received Direct Debit Mandates** |
```
Tab casing per guide-add-mandate and guide-manage-mandates.

> | Send a B2B mandate registration link | **Data** > **Accounts** > [select] > **Received direct debit mandates** > **Copy link** |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Send a B2B mandate registration link | **Dashboard** > **Data** > **Accounts** > select the account > **Received Direct Debit Mandates** > **Copy SDD B2B mandate form link** |
```
Button name per the add-mandate guide (screenshotted there). Worth noting somewhere that the link recipient needs the `canInitiatePayments` permission.

### Cards

> Swan offers three card types: virtual, physical, and digital. You can cancel any active card directly from the Cards tab. Cancellation is permanent, so the card can't be reactivated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Swan offers three card types: virtual, physical, and digital. You can cancel any active card directly from the Cards tab. Cancellation is permanent, so the card can't be reactivated. For disputes, see [Card disputes and chargebacks](/topics/operations/guide-card-disputes-chargebacks/).
```
Checklist cross-link.

:::info Deleting digital cards

Deleting Apple Pay or Google Pay digital cards is currently only possible through the API.

:::

| Action | Navigation path |
| --- | --- |

> | Cancel a card | **Data** > **Cards** > [select] > **Cancel** |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Cancel a card | **Dashboard** > **Data** > **Cards** > select the card > **Cancel** |
```

> | Download an invoice | **Data** > **Cards** > [select] > **Invoice** |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Delete: invoices belong to accounts, not cards (see the suggestion on the account statements row, where this moves).

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Extra blank line.

## Contact Swan Support

> Submit a Swan Support request at [partner-support.swan.io](https://partner-support.swan.io/hc/en-gb/requests/new).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Submit a Swan Support request using the [Partner support request form](https://partner-support.swan.io/hc/en-gb/requests/new).
```
Canonical link text, matching the other operations guides.

Contact Swan Support if:

- You need to request a transfer recall.

> - You need to change an account admin or legal representative.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You need to change an account admin or legal representative. See [Change an account administrator or legal representative](/topics/operations/guide-change-account-admin-legal-representative/).
```
Checklist cross-link. The dedicated guide covers exactly this escalation.

- You notice a data discrepancy in your Dashboard that you can't resolve yourself.

Include in your request:

- Account ID or user ID
- A description of the issue
- Steps already taken

## Share these articles with your users

- [Download your transaction confirmation statements](https://support.swan.io/hc/en-150/articles/22861134892061-Download-your-transaction-confirmation-statements): how to download and review your transaction confirmation statement.
- [Block your card](https://support.swan.io/hc/en-150/articles/18538920070045-Blocking-your-card): a step-by-step guide on how to block your card temporarily or permanently.
- [Account balances](https://support.swan.io/hc/en-150/articles/16464971717277-Account-balances): everything you need to know about account balances.

:::tip Help center content

You can also use these articles as a starting point to create your own FAQ or help center content, tailored to your product's terminology and your users' specific context.

> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::

```

| **Event Simulator** | Simulate events in Sandbox to test your integration | [Event simulator guide](https://docs.swan.io/developers/tools/event-simulator/) |

## Configure your settings

| Setting | What you configure | Who |
| --- | --- | --- |
| **Branding** | Project name, logo, accent color | **You** |
| **Redirect URIs** | OAuth authentication redirect URLs | **Development team** |
| **Server consent** | Server-to-server consent flow configuration | **Development team** |
| **Payment control** | Payment limits and controls | **Development team** |

## Get to know the self-service actions

You can complete the actions below directly from your Dashboard without submitting a Swan Support request or
contacting your development team. Use this as a quick reference when a user contacts you with one of these needs.

### Onboarding and verification

If a user's onboarding is waiting on documents, you can upload them and request a Swan review directly.
You can also track identification status without contacting Swan.

| Action | Navigation path |
| --- | --- |

> | Upload supporting documents | **Data** > **Onboardings** > [select] > **Supporting documents** > **Supporting document portal** |

Author: I see your point; it would make the whole thing very long and clunky, though. The difference between [Account] and [select] is that the first is a specific button, while the second can be chosen (e.g. an AH from the list). Is there any other path we can follow here?

> | Upload supporting documents | **Data** > **Onboardings** > [select] > **Supporting documents** > **Supporting document portal** |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Upload supporting documents | **Dashboard** > **Data** > **Onboardings** > select the onboarding > **Supporting documents** > **Supporting document portal** |
```
`[select]` isn't used anywhere in the repo; sibling guides write the selection step as prose. I guess that's the better option here :)
